Lesson: 15
NAME: My own exploration
TITLE: Responsive Design
DESC: On my own I decided to look into two concepts, responsive design and javascript. I delved deeper into responsive
design through Udacity courses, first the 'Intro to HTML and CSS' just to get a better hold on basic web development,
but I spent most of time on the 'Responsive Web Design Fundamentals' course with instructors Cameron Pittman and Pete
Lepage. In this course I learned about the needs for responsive designs with the rise of mobile and other hand held
devices. I learned how to establish a basic CSS framework for myself and how to use media queries to adjust my layouts
based on the screen that my webapp is being viewed on. The instructors also showed me several commonly used responsive
layouts that I could use or base my own layouts on. I became more familiar with flex-boxes during this course and became
more proficient with basic CSS in general. With what I learned from the courses and my internet searching I created a
layout for my page that responds to the size of the screen it is being viewed on. I started with the smallest size and
worked my way up, adding breakpoints where I felt the page needed to adjust to better take advantage of the space
available. I kept my touch buttons at a min of 48px as suggested to make it easy for users to navigate the page, and I
used flex-boxes to make sure my content flowed and adjusted accordingly.<br>
<br>
    I also did a lot of searching on the internet for information on how to achieve certain effects.
Stackoverflow has been extremely useful as a reference for me, as well as w3schools.com. Both sites I have used
extensively during my time with Udacity. w3schools.com is a great reference tool with lots of examplesand tutorials on
all kinds of web development. Stackoverflow is a Q&A site where developers ask specific, situational questions and
other programmers respond with either direct answers or advice and a lot of times, example code on how to achieve the
desired results.
TITLE: Javascript
DESC: I started looking into javascript first, as it has long been a language I've been interested in, however I ended
up spending more of time on learning responsive design. I did still learn a little bit about Javascript through the
Udacity course 'Javascript Basics' with Cameron Pittman and James Williams. I followed through the course until I hit
a snag with JQuery. I wasn't able to get the JQuery library to work for me yet, and rather than spend the time to get
it figured out and working I drifted towards the responsive design. I did still learn quite a bit about the capabilities
of Javascript, I practiced writing my own scripts using GreaseMonkey in my FireFox browser on various pages and then
made my own javascript function. This function, when a concept in the list is clicked on, would grab the title and
description of the concept and post it to the content viewer div. Giving my page a bit of interactiveness and a tidier
look.
